---
title: "Summary of 2021"
---

# Summary of 2021
For the year 2021 I set a challenge for myself to do
[bird listing]({% post_url birding/2020-12-31-photography-birding %}), through
photography. It has been a very fun way to explore my surroundings, and to
experience and learn about birds.

I think it has also increased my photography skills, specifically wildlife
photography.

## Statistics

In total I ended up seeing 160 different species of birds. The below graph
shows how that number has increased throughout the year.

{% include figure.html url="assets/img/2021_stats.png" description="Photo listing statistics for 2021" %}

And here's a graph showing the number of new listing by week number. Note that
the first three days of 2021 are part of week number 53 for 2020 according to
ISO standard.

{% include figure.html url="assets/img/2021_week_stats.png" description="Number of new listings by week" %}

We can, as probably expected, see a big number of listings in the first weeks.
When you're starting out, you find new birds everywhere. Then we see a new bump
at about week 17-20, this is the spring bird migration season.

Then a new bump appears at week 29-32, this was the period for my summer
vacation. Traveling to the Swedish mountains, and having loads of extra time on
my hands, allowed for me seeing more new birds.

And finally we have a last bump at week 41-42 - the fall bird migration period.

## Experiences

At two occasions have I felt an extraordinary excitement about finding a bird.
The first one was together with Carl when finding 7 Red-breasted goose:

{% include image.html url="assets/img/Rödhalsad gås.jpg" description="Red-breasted goose" %}

And the second one was when I found a Tawny owl myself:

{% include image.html url="assets/img/Kattuggla2.jpg" description="Tawny owl" %}

The lesson I think is that going to see a bird that someone else has found can
be all great and fun. But the real excitement comes from finding something
yourself.

## Thanks

I want to thank a couple of people for their great company going out birding,
them sharing their knowledge, or giving me opportunities otherwise hard to find
by myself. Thank you Hanna, Staffan, Carl, Marc, Jonas and Oscar.
