---
title: "Summary of 2023"
tags: []
---
# Statistics
2023 gave me 26 new photo listings, giving me a total 229.

{% include figure.html url="assets/img/2023_stats.png" description="Photo listing statistics for 2023" %}

And here's a graph showing the number of new listing by week number.
{% include figure.html url="assets/img/2023_week_stats.png" description="Number of new listings by week" %}

To summarize, the complete graph since I started in 2021 looks like this:
{% include figure.html url="assets/img/2023_stats_all.png" description="Photo listing statistics for 2021-2023" %}

## Experiences
The experiences of new listings this year can be split into three main categories:
1. Random new birds, that other people have found: Pacific loon, Black-throated
   thrush, Blyth’s reed warbler etc.
2. "Shame birds" - birds you would expect a birder in Sweden to have seen.
   Gladly I've found most of these myself, or found a new one by myself. Great
   grey shrike, Common scoter, Red-throated loon, Collared flycatcher etc.
   Before I started keeping a list, I've found my own Golden eagle, but now I
   could add it to my listings as well.
3. Birds I've seen when travelling abroad, but now seen in Sweden as well.
   Little egret, Corn bunting and Cattle egret (full list).

I have one listing that I'm a bit sad/ashamed of, and that's the [Northern
gannet]({% post_url birding/2023-06-17-2023-q2 %}#nothern-gannet). This bird was in the
completely wrong place, and probably not all to well. I hope to soon see one
soaring over the ocean in strong winds, as it's meant to be.


The bird experiences I hold most dear from this year was when Carl and I saw a
[Northern hawk-owl]({% post_url birding/2023-10-01-september %}#northern-hawk-owl) on
Öland.
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Hökuggla.jpg" description="Northern hawk-owl" %}

## Thanks
As always, birding with friends makes the experience greater. I want to thank
you Hanna, Carl, Magnus, Marc, Henrik, Martin and Staffan for sharing these
experiences with you.
