---
title: "October 15"
tags: ["blåstjärt", "tajgablåstjärt", "rapphöna", "kohäger"]
---
# Photo listings
My friend Martin had given his brother Henrik a weekend on Öland during the
famous birding week 41 as a birthday gift. Carl and me joined them yesterday for
a full day of birding.

## Red-flanked bluetail
I have the red-flanked bluetail already listed since [October 2, 2021]({% post_url birding/2021-10-02-october-2 %}),
but this sighting was too good not to share. We had been searching through
Bjärby badplats since sunrise. Some nice sightings, but nothing out of the
ordinary. After almost 3h, we went back to the car for coffee and finding some
new energy. At the parking lot, Carl spots a bunch of European robins,
habitually takes up his binoculars and looks through them and goes "Sh\*t! Theres
a red-flanked bluetail!". It's what you dream of, but know never will happen.
And then suddenly it does happen. Congratulations Carl, for a once in a lifetime
epic find!

{% include image.html url="assets/img/Tajgablåstjärt-1.jpg" description="Red-flanked bluetail" %}
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Tajgablåstjärt-2.jpg" description="Red-flanked bluetail" %}

## Grey partridge
I've heard [Grey partridge]({% post_url birding/2023-06-17-2023-q2 %}) before,
but never seen one. And today I got to seem Grey partridge twice!

{% include image.html url="assets/img/Rapphöna.jpg" description="Grey partridge" %}

## Cattle egret
And lastly, a new listing! I've seen Cattle egret before in [South Africa](https://macaulaylibrary.org/asset/502367031)
and on [Mallorca](https://macaulaylibrary.org/asset/556415881). And now, there
happened to be one on Öland. There has been around 20 spotted in total in Sweden
ever, so this was very unexpected.

{% include image.html url="assets/img/Kohäger-1.jpg" description="Cattle egret" %}
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Kohäger-2.jpg" description="Cattle egret" %}
