---
title: "2024 First half"
tags: ["vittrut", "rödspov", "härfågel", "vassångare", "aftonfalk"]
---
# Photo listings
Here are some new photo listings from the first half of 2024.

## Glaucous gull
In January Carl and me went to Moskogens avfallsanläggning to search for a
Glaucous gull that had been spotted there for a while.
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Vittrut.jpg" description="Glaucous gull" %}

## Black-tailed godwit
When out on Öland in April, I noticed a wader in a puddle. Took a photo of it
from the car to get a better look and directly saw it was a Black-tailed
godwit. I didn't think too much of it, until much later when looking at
Artportalen, where it was mentioned as a new lifer for me. I looked back, and
sure enough, it was a new one! Embarassing I didn't notice directly.
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Rödspov.jpg" description="Black-tailed godwit" %}

## Eurasian hoopoe
In May a hoopoe appeard in Kalmar, out on the contry side. After work I took
the buss out to look at it.
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Härfågel.jpg" description="Eurasian hoopoe" %}

## Savi's warbler
Also in May, a Savi's warbler was singing by Kalmar dämme for a few days. I
managed to record him singing.
<audio controls>
  <source src="/assets/audio/Vassångare.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
  <source src="/assets/audio/Vassångare.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support <code>audio</code>.
</audio>

## Red-footed falcon
About a week later, a Red-footed falcon also came to Kalmar dämme, and seem to
have been there for about 2-3 days. First day looked like a one-off sighting,
but the next day it was spotted again, and I managed to go see it hunting after
work.
{% include image.html url="assets/img/Aftonfalk.jpg" description="Red-footed falcon" %}
